In this video we will discuss Application
Program Interfaces API for short.
Specifically, we will discuss:
What is an API API Libraries
REST API, including:
Request and Response
An Example with PyCoinGecko
An API lets two pieces
of software talk to each other
For example you have your program,
you have some data, you have
other software components.
You use the api to communicate with
the api via inputs and outputs.
Just like a function, you don’t have to know how
the API works, but just its inputs and outputs.
Pandas is actually a set of software components,
much of which are not even written in Python.
You have some data.
You have a set of software components.
We use the pandas api to process the data by
communicating with the other Software Components.
Let’s clean up the diagram.
When you create a dictionary,
and then create a pandas object with the Dataframe
constructor, in API lingo, this is an “instance.”
The data in the dictionary is
passed along to the pandas API.
You then use the dataframe
to communicate with the API.
When you call the method head,
the dataframe communicates with the API
displaying the first few rows of the dataframe.
When you call the method mean
the API will calculate the
mean and return the values.
REST APIs are another popular type of API;
they allow you to communicate through the
internet allowing you to take advantage of
resources like storage, access more data,
artificial intelligent algorithms, and much
more. The RE stands for Representational,
the S stands for State,
the T stand for Transfer.
In rest API’s your program is called the client.
The API communicates with a web
service you call through the internet.
There is a set of rules regarding Communication,
Input or Request, and Output or Response.
Here are some common terms.
You or your code can be thought of as a client.
The web service is referred to as a resource.
The client finds the service via an endpoint.
We will review this more in the next section.
The client sends requests to the
resource and the response to the client.
HTTP methods are a way of
transmitting data over the internet
We tell the Rest API’s what to do
by sending a request. The request
is usually communicated via an HTTP message.
The HTTP message usually contains a JSON file.
This contains instructions for what operation
we would like the service to perform.
This operation is transmitted to
the webservice via the internet.
The service performs the operation.
In the similar manner, the webservice
returns a response via an HTTP message,
where the information is usually returned
via a JSON file. This information
is transmitted back to the client.
Crypto Currency data is excellent to be used in
an API because it is being constantly updated
and it is vital to CryptoCurrency Trading
We will use the Py-Coin-Gecko Python
Client/Wrapper for the Coin Gecko API,
updated every minute by Coin-Gecko
We use the Wrapper/Client because it is easy to
use so you can focus on the task of collecting
data, we will also introduce pandas time series
functions for dealing with time series data
Using Py-Coin-Gecko to collect data is
quite simple All we need is to install
and import the library Create a client object
And finally use a function to request our data.
In this function we are getting data on
bitcoin, in U.S. Dollars, for the past
30 days. In this case our response is a JSON
expressed as a python dictionary of nested lists
including price, market cap, and total volumes
which contain the unix timestamp and the price
at that time. We are only interested in price so
that is what we will select using the key price
To make things simple, we can convert
our nested list to a DataFrame,
with the columns time stamp and price
its difficult to understand the column time stamp
we Will convert it to a more readable
format using the pandas Function to_datetime
Using the to datetime function, we create
readable time data, the input is the time stamp
column unit of time is set to milliseconds
We append the output to the new column date
We. Would like to create a candle stick plot
To get the data for the daily candlesticks
we will group by the date
to find the minimum, maximum,
first, and last price of each day
Finally we will use plotly to create
the candlestick chart
and plot it
Now we can view the candlestick chart
by opening the html file and clicking
trust HTML in the top left of the tab
It should look something like this